# MidRiffsWatch-ShinyApp
App Summary
This App will provide users with a two scenario world in the mid-Gulf of California: one scenario where there are no Marine Reserves and one with 5% of the area protected as a net of Marine Reserves. The App will provide information on 14 species that drive the fisheries catch in the region. Using the model developed by the Midriff Watch Group Project Team, users will be able to visualize both observational data from 2005 to 2015, and projected outputs up to 2105. They will have the option to choose from catch, biomass, effort, and revenues derived from those fisheries. All outputs will allow users to compare two scenarios: Marine Reserves implemented, and Marine Reserves not implemented.

Data Summary
1. Variables (4): Biomass (metric tons), Catch (metric tons), Effort (varies), Revenues (millions of dollars)
The units for effort depend on the method used to quantify effort or energy invested for each fishery. Some examples include: number of fishers working/hour, number of vessels/season, gear type, hours of work/fisher

2. 14 species, data for each variable from 2005, and projected outcomes 100 years into the future.

3. The database has been cleaned up and organized, but still needs some work to be in the tidy format necessary for making the App.

4. Citations and credit:
Federal Fisheries reported catch, Mexico. CONAPESCA (2015)
Froese, R., Demirel, N., Coro, G. Kleisner, K.M., and Winker, H. (2017). Estimating fisheries reference points from catch and resilience. Fish and Fisheries, 18(3). 506-526
Refined ORCS approach (Free et. al., 2017): Free, C. M., Jensen, O. P., Wiedenmann, J., Deroba, J. J. (2017). The refined ORCS approach: a catch-based method for estimating stock status and catch limits for data-poor fish stocks. Fisheries Research 193C: 60-70
The Strategic Plan for Conservation and Sustainable Management for the Midriff Islands, 2011 Comisión Nacional de Áreas Naturales Protegidas (Mexico), Comunidad y Biodiversidad COBI, Pronatura Noroeste AC.



Widgets 
1. Dropdown menu: Users will select one of the fourteen species they are interested in with the dropdown menu. There is data on all four variables for each species.

2. Radio Buttons: There will be one button each for the four variables: revenues, catch, biomass, and effort. This will be the way users select which dependent variable they would like to use for the output figures (y axis). 

3.  Slider: The user will select the time period they are interested in up to 100 years into the future. This will appear on the x axis of the output figure. The slider will start at 2005, and end at 2105.

Note: In the final form of the app, to be completed Spring 2019, there will also be buttons for users to download the raw data used for the project, and to view a .pdf of the full report. 

Outputs
Outputs for years between 2005 and 2015 are from observational data. Outputs for years past 2015 will be projected values based on the model developed by the Midriff Watch Group Project Team. There are two scenarios: the Mexican government implements a Marine Reserve in the Mid-Gulf of California, and they do not implement a Marine Reserve.
 
The outputs generated by the widget selections will be line graphs of the selected variable versus time (for the species they selected). Each will have two lines: one representing the scenario where there is a Marine Reserve, one representing the scenario where a Marine Reserve is not implemented. Example below in Figure 1. The output will also contain a calculated value for the area between the two curves. This area will represent the amount of the variable lost or gained over the amount of time selected.
